22 years old, living in Colombia, fired
from an SEO agency, no clients, no
network,
>> [music]
>> no savings, no plan. By 25, I'd made a
million dollars without ads, without a
big following, [music] without posting
on five different platforms, just one.
And if a girl in Medellin, Colombia with
zero X connections [music] and zero
experience pulled that off, the question
worth asking is what exactly does the
playbook look like? That's what this
video is. The platform, [music] the
algorithm, the content system, the
strategy behind it. Everything I do from
day one if [music] I had to start over
today.
I know what you are thinking, LinkedIn.
The platform where people post, I'm
humbled to announce updates. Corporate,
stiff, not where real conversations
happen. Or the cringe platform with
crying CEOs and what proposing to my
wife taught me about B2B sales. And
honestly, that's exactly what I thought.
And that resistance is [music] actually
the opportunity. LinkedIn has 1.3
billion members, but only 3% of them
post weekly. Think about it like a
stadium with 50,000 seats. Everyone's
sitting in the stands watching, but
almost nobody's on the field. When you
show up on that field and start
performing, every single person in those
stands can see you. You honestly don't
need to be the best, you just need to be
there. That's LinkedIn right now. The
stands are packed, the field is empty.
Because honestly, the standards are
pretty low. Platforms like X and
Instagram are usually years ahead of
LinkedIn, but the difference is the
audience isn't there to be entertained.
They're executives, founders, CMOs,
people with budgets and a problem they
need solved this quarter. When someone
on LinkedIn sees your content and
thinks, I need this, they can act on it
the same day. That's a completely
different buying environment than any
other platform. Now, the be everywhere
advice. On paper, it sounds right. More
platforms, more reach. But watch what
actually happens. You become generic.
Every platform has different rules.
Trying to make content that works
everywhere is like trying to make one
outfit that works for the gym, a board
meeting, and a wedding. It just doesn't.
You end up underdressed everywhere. You
burn out. Managing five platforms is a
full-time job. You are constantly
context-switching
and because you are not seeing results
anywhere fast enough, you quit before
anything compounds. You never build
intuition. Learning an algorithm is like
learning a city. You can't know five
cities deeply at the same time. But when
you live in one long enough, you stop
needing a map. You just know which
streets work.
Split across five platforms, you're
always a tourist, [music] never a local.
The question isn't which platforms
should I be on? The [music] question is,
where are my buyers and how do I own
that channel before everyone else does?
For B2B, LinkedIn is not social media,
it's a distribution channel. Your
prospects are there right now making
decisions, vetting vendors, forming
opinions about who knows what they're
talking about. When you are not in that
conversation, your competitor is. I
ignored every other platform until I hit
a specific revenue milestone. That one
decision changed everything.
But before we talk about what to post,
you need to understand what changed
underneath the platform. Because if
you're still following LinkedIn advice
from two years ago, you are using a map
of a city that got completely rebuilt.
LinkedIn published a research paper
written by their own engineers, nine
pages, it explains exactly how they
rebuilt the algorithm from scratch. They
call it 360 Brew. They scrapped the old
system entirely. It used to work like a
committee. One module tracked [music]
trending topics, another tracked
hashtags, another measured how fast
[music] your post got likes in the first
hour, all of them voting on what to show
people. That's gone. Replaced by a
single AI model, 150 billion parameters,
built in-house, trained entirely on
LinkedIn's own data. One brain, not a
committee. The old system matched
keywords. The new one reads meaning.
It's not looking for the right words in
your post anymore. It's asking whether
your post actually belongs in front of a
specific person based on everything it
knows about them. It doesn't track
whether you posted at the optimal time,
it tracks whether people stopped and
actually read what you wrote. That's why
it's not as easy to fool it with an
engagement pod as before. It knows the
difference between someone who really
commented and someone who typed great
insight without reading a single word.
And here's the part that surprised me
the most. The new system actively favors
smaller accounts. LinkedIn ran AB tests
before rolling it out, and for accounts
with smaller networks, the new algorithm
produced measurably better outcomes. The
old system was like compound interest at
a bank that only gave the best rates to
the people who already had the most
money. The new system changed that. Data
from 50,000 posts published in late
2025, a top 10% post from someone with a
5 to 10K follower range gets around 5.5
impressions. A medium post with someone
with 25 to 50K followers gets 2.4K. A
great post from a smaller account
outperforms an average post from an
account five times its size. That's why
execution now matters more than audience
size. And this is why now is the best
time to post on LinkedIn after the 2022
boom. Because everything after that was
really hard. Bigger accounts were taking
up the whole total addressable content.
I'll explain what that is in a few
minutes. But now anyone can enter the
TAC. So what stopped working? Timing
optimization, hashtags, because the
system rewards meaning now, not labels.
Engagement pods, because 360 Brew tracks
dwell time and genuine engagement
patterns. Generic advice, because when
thousands of people post the same five
tips, you're all swimming in the same
lane. And the algorithm knows it. What
does it reward now then? Genuine
expertise, content people actually dwell
on, saves over likes, and a voice that
sounds like a real human with a real
expertise. I did a full deep dive on the
seven new rules behind 360 Brew in
another video, I'll link it in the
description if you want the complete
breakdown. But for this video, the
takeaway is simple. The system now reads
meaning, rewards relevance, and punishes
shortcuts. Oh, and one more thing on
this. LinkedIn SEO is real and almost
everyone ignores it. And here's proof
that it works. Someone tagged me in a
post recently, an SEO consultant who'd
been watching his impressions flatline
for six months. He changed one thing,
his headline and about section. Reach up
226%,
engagement up 327%.
Same posting style, same content, same
frequency. A prospect even found him
through LinkedIn search the same week.
That's not a coincidence. The algorithm
uses your profile as a context signal.
360 Brew reads your profile before it
distributes a single piece of your
content. It's essentially asking, based
on who this person says they are, does
this post belong in front of that
audience? Your headline and about
section are telling the system what
topics you are qualified on. Plus, you
also optimize for the search bar. It's
honestly the worst search bar I've ever
seen, but somehow a client who now pays
$20,000 a month found me through it. And
another case in point is the SEO
consultant I just mentioned. So here's
what actually moves the needle for
LinkedIn SEO. Your headline needs
keywords, not just titles, not SEO
consultant helping B2B SaaS teams grow
through organic and AI search. Try SEO
and AEO consultant for B2B SaaS, because
it matches what buyers actually search
for right now. In today's AI world,
that's [music] AEO. Your services
section is searchable gold. Most people
skip [music] it entirely. Fill it in
with the exact language your ICP uses
when describing what [music] they need.
Your about section is a sales page.
Write it with natural keywords, not
stuffed, not forced, written the way
your buyer would describe their own
problem out loud. Post consistently
around your core keywords, the system
builds a content fingerprint of you over
time. Post about LinkedIn strategy every
week and the algorithm starts routing
LinkedIn strategy content toward your
audience automatically. And the details
matter, too. Name your carousel files
before uploading, because they tell your
system exactly what the document is
about. Add alt text to your images,
nobody does this, and the system
actually does read it. Now, we've
covered the platform and we've covered
the algorithm. But none of that matters
if you are walking into LinkedIn without
knowing what you are about to build. And
what we usually build first is a profile
that works against us.
Before you write a single post, fix your
profile. This is the most skipped step.
People spend weeks crafting [music]
content and send all that traffic to a
profile that loses them in 10 seconds.
Your content is the ad, your profile is
a [music] landing page. If the ad is
great, the landing page is confusing,
nobody buys. Right now, most profiles
are the equivalent of clicking a
promising ad and landing on a page that
just says, "Hi, I am founder of
something." or "Hi, I work somewhere."
But simply, the ad gets the click, the
landing page gets the client. When your
landing page is broken, every post you
write is wasted. When a stranger lands
on your profile, they're doing one fast
gut check. Do I understand what this
person does and whether it's for me?
When the answer isn't immediately
obvious, they leave. That's not a
content problem, that's a profile
problem. Your banner? This is your
re-hook. Your post was what stopped the
scroll. Your headline get got the click.
Now your banner needs to keep them
moving down the page. It should make a
visitor think, "I need to keep reading.
I like this person. I want to know
more." Something that pulls their eyes
straight down to your featured section.
Your headline, not your job title, your
value proposition. Most people write
like founder at X or marketing manager.
That's like a restaurant calling itself
a place that sells food. Use a problem
you solve and who you solve it for. And
use the exact language your buyers
search for. Mine says building content
engines, LinkedIn newsletters, YouTube
founder, Distinct IO. We grow B2B brands
through organic content, content
strategist, speaker. Every single
element I put there [music] is
intentional. Keywords your buyers search
for, the platforms I work on, and what I
actually do. All in my first line. Then
your about section, one structure,
problem, solution, proof, CTA. Not your
life story. Show you understand the
pain. Position yourself as the fix. Add
numbers, then tell people exactly what
to do next. Nobody's scrolling LinkedIn
to read your autobiography. Your
featured section, the most underused
piece of real estate on the platform.
But here's how to think about it. The
goal is to move people one step closer
into your world, somewhere you own the
relationship. That means a newsletter
sign-up, a booking link, a lead magnet,
something that pulls people off of
LinkedIn and into your ecosystem.
Because LinkedIn owns your followers,
you don't. A post belongs here only if
it genuinely showcases something
exceptional, but a booking link or a
newsletter always takes priority. Your
custom CTA button. LinkedIn lets you add
a button link directly on your profile.
Most people leave it blank or link to
their homepage. That button is free real
estate. [music] Link it to a booking
page, download, a newsletter, whatever
action you actually want people to take.
So someone sees your post, they click on
your name, they scan your headline, they
check your featured section. That
sequence is a funnel. Post and headline
gets them to your profile. Banner gets
them to your about section and featured
section gets them into your world. When
any step is unclear, you've lost them.
Spend one full day on this before you
post anything.
Before you write a single post, spend 72
hours doing something most people skip
entirely. Study the landscape you're
entering. There's a book called Steal
Like an Artist. The premise is that
nothing is completely original. Every
creative person builds on what came
before. The difference between good
stealing and bad stealing is this. Bad
stealing copies one person. Good
stealing studies many. Absorb what
resonates [music] and remake it into
something that only you could make.
Think of it like a musician. A bad
musician learns one song and plays it
note for note. Good musician listens to
50 [music] artists, absorbs what makes
each one resonate, and then writes
something that sounds like nobody else.
The song feels original, but every
influence is in there if you know where
to listen. That's exactly how I built my
presence on LinkedIn. Find accounts in
your space who are clearly getting
engagement from the right people. Don't
base this on follower account. Base it
on post performance. A 3,000 follower
account with consistently strong
engagement from your ICP is more
valuable to study than a 100K account
whose comments are all from other
creators. Study them like a case study.
What topics do they keep coming back to?
What hooks stop people from scrolling?
What formats gets traction? How do they
end their posts? Most importantly, what
are the outliers and why? What was it
about that post that made it successful?
You are not doing this to copy them, you
are doing this to understand the
unwritten rules of your niche before you
walk in. Every niche on LinkedIn has
them. When you skip this step, you'll
spend months posting into a void with no
idea why. Then start posting. Steal
formats, steal hooks, steal design
frameworks, not ideas. Take a hook
structure that worked for someone in
your space and rebuilt it around your
own experience. Take a framework someone
used to explain one concept and apply it
to a completely different one. Take a
content type that performs in your niche
and make your own version of it. You are
not starting from zero, you are starting
from everything that's already been
figured out. Then adding the one thing
nobody else can replicate is your actual
experience. And then after about 6
months, you'll see something shift. You
stop noticing what's working for
everyone else and you start noticing
what's missing, what your niche keeps
getting wrong, what nobody is saying but
everyone needs to hear. That's when you
stop stealing and you start building
something that's actually yours. So now
you understand the platform, you fixed
the profile, you know how to study the
landscape before you walk in. But this
is where we still get it wrong. We start
posting and we post the same type of
content over and over without realizing
it and we wonder why some people are
growing and we are not. The answer is a
system and most people don't have one.
Random posting doesn't work. You need a
system. Think of your content like a
sales team where every person has a
different job. One person brings in new
leads. One builds trust. One closes. One
keeps existing relationships warm. When
everyone's doing the same job, the whole
pipeline breaks. Your content works the
same way.
>> [music]
>> I call this the content buckets. Four
buckets, four jobs, each one doing
something the others can't. So let's
start with growth because this is the
one most people get wrong. Growth
content expands your reach. But before I
explain how, I need to address the
question nobody wants to say out loud.
Why should anyone care about you?
Seriously, you could have a 70 million
exit, a decade of experience, a client
list that would make most people's jaws
drop. And when nobody on LinkedIn knows
who you are, none of that matters. You
will get ignored. I know this because we
lived it. A client of ours, founder,
sold his company for over 70 million
dollars. Legitimately one of the most
accomplished people I've worked with. He
stopped working with us for a few months
and started posting on his own. And the
numbers were brutal. Single digit likes,
almost no impressions on posts about a
topic he literally built a company on.
Attention doesn't care about your bank
account. It cares about relevance. In
other words, expertise and attention are
two completely different currencies. You
can be rich in one and broke in the
other one. And on LinkedIn, attention is
the one that pays first. This is what I
call the authority paradox. The more you
know, the more you assume people will
care. But actually, nobody cares until
you earn their attention first. That's
why growth content has to push your
authority into audiences that don't know
you yet. You can't just post what you
know, you have to post what people are
already looking for. Think about it as
total addressable content, what I was
going to explain earlier on. The same
way a business has a total addressable
market, your content has a total
addressable audience. The question is,
what are the people in that audience
already watching, reading, reacting to
right now? That's your entry point. And
there are four specific formats that
break through when nobody knows your
name yet. Brandjacking. Take a
well-known brand, a decision they made,
a campaign, a product launch, a mistake,
and use it as a frame for your own
insight. You are not reporting on them,
you are borrowing the attention their
name already has and redirecting it
toward your expertise. The key is that
your insight has to be genuinely yours.
You're not summarizing what they did,
you're saying, "Here's what this
actually reveals about how our industry
works." One of our clients did this with
Heinz dropping their logo from
billboards and still having 70% brand
recognition. He used it to make a point
about creative consistency versus
testing velocity and paid social. 9,000
impressions, 193 reactions, 33 saves.
Another did it with Liquid Death,
breaking down how their creative team
generates billions in earned media. That
one hit 38,000 impressions. Both times
people inside those companies showed up
in the comments. The VP of creative at
Liquid Death corrected a detail. That
comment alone got 190 likes. When the
subject of your post engages with your
content, the algorithm treats it like a
signal that something real is happening.
Newsjacking.
When something significant happens in
your industry, your goal is to be the
first credible voice to contextualize
it. [music] Anyone can share the news.
What your audience actually needs is
someone who understands what it means,
what the second order effects are, and
why the obvious interpretation might be
wrong. And timing is everything here, so
take care of that. The algorithm rewards
posts that enter a conversation while
it's still hot. A sharp take posted
within 24 to 48 hours of a breaking
story gets pushed significantly harder
than something that was published a week
later. One of our clients was among the
first to contextualize OpenAI testing
ads inside ChatGPT. 130 comments within
days of the story breaking. Another
covered the revelation that ChatGPT is
pulling directly from Google search. 293
comments, 234 reposts. Another covered
Bing launching an AI performance
dashboard and what it actually means for
search visibility. 70 reposts. All three
hit strong numbers fast because they
were early and they had a real point of
view, not just a summary. Namejacking.
Reference a specific person your
audience already follows. It could be
someone you agree with, someone whose
idea you want to build on, or someone
you respectfully disagree with. The
mechanism is the same. You borrow
[snorts] their name recognition to stop
the scroll. Then deliver a perspective
that is entirely your own. This only
works when your take is genuinely
substantial. It's not about controversy.
It's about adding something real to a
conversation people are already having.
One of our clients referenced Satya
Nadella's decision to replace
know-it-all culture with learn-it-all
culture at Microsoft. 24,000
impressions. Another referenced Mira
Murati turning down a billion-dollar
acquisition from Zuckerberg and
connected it to what loyalty inside
companies actually looks like. And one
of our clients posted about Steven
Bartlett and Bartlett himself commented
on it. 147,000
impressions. When you reference the
right people with genuine insight,
sometimes those people notice. And when
they do, the distribution compounds in a
way no amount of hashtags or posting
frequency ever could. Hot takes. A
contrarian angle on something your
entire industry accepts as true. Not
trying to be provocative for its own
sake. A genuinely held belief that
challenges the consensus in a way that
forces people to take a position. These
work because they create an immediate
reaction. People either immediately
agree or immediately push back. Either
way, they engage. And engagement
velocity in the first hours can help the
algorithm decide how far to push a post.
The best hot takes aren't random
controversy. They come from something
you've actually observed. A pattern your
clients keep hitting, a belief the
industry keeps repeating that your
experience contradicts. One of our
clients posted a direct claim that
original research is outranking
AI-written content. Not by little, by a
lot. 396 comments, 304 reposts, 3,198
reactions. Another posted that ChatGPT
just sold its soul the moment it started
testing ads. 137 comments. And it kept
climbing for days. Both posts generated
the kind of traction because they stated
a clear position and forced people to
respond. All four do the same [music]
thing. They attach your expertise to
something people are already paying
attention to. You're walking into a
conversation [music] that's already
happening instead of standing in an
empty room hoping someone walks by.
That's how you solve the authority
paradox without waiting two years.
Authority content builds trust.
Frameworks, case studies, client
results, the difference between someone
thinking interesting opinions and this
person can actually help me. But notice
the sequence. Growth gets you seen,
authority makes them stay because
authority content alone posted to an
audience that doesn't know you yet is
like handing out a business card in an
empty room. Then conversion content is
what's going to create the pipeline. You
actually have to ask for the business
sometimes. And when you've built trust
with the first two buckets I just
mentioned, conversion posts feel like a
natural next step. Not desperation.
And then the last one is personal
content. It makes you memorable, the
human behind the expertise, your story,
your perspective, the behind the scenes
of what you are building. When AI can
generate decent content for anyone, the
only thing that can't be replicated is a
genuine person with a point of view. And
that's remote. So roughly, let's think
about 40% growth, 30% authority, 20%
conversion, and then 10% personal.
There's no hard rules, but zoom out over
a month and all four should be there.
In the first 90 days, your comments
matter more than your posts. When you
post to zero followers, almost nobody
sees it. It's like opening a store on a
street with no foot traffic and
wondering why nobody comes. But when you
leave a strong comment on a post hitting
50,000 impressions, you are setting up a
pop-up stand on the busiest street in
town. Every person who reads that post
walks past your name, reads what you
wrote, and decides whether to click your
profile. I call this the comment
flywheel. You're borrowing distribution
you haven't earned yet by showing up
inside conversations that already have
it. And every good comment spins the
wheel a little faster. That is the
highest leverage thing you can do in the
first 90 days, commenting. So a good
comment does one of three things. It has
a new angle the original post didn't
cover. It respectfully challenges the
take. Or tells a quick story that
connects to the topic. Great post is not
a comment. Nobody reads it and it does
nothing for you. So be strategic about
where you comment. Don't just find viral
posts, find posts from people whose
audience match your ICP. A post with 500
likes from the right people is worth
more than a post with 50,000 likes from
the wrong ones. Quality of audience
always beats size of audience. So build
a simple engagement list. A spreadsheet,
category, their LinkedIn name, their
activity URL, not their profile URL. It
has to be the activity one because if
you don't get that one, they're going to
see that you're seeing their profile
every single day and
that gets creepy fast. So remember,
activity feed link only. So 30 minutes a
day on strategic comments before you
open your drafts. Do that for 90 days
and watch what happens. Don't just post
and ghost your own content. You need to
reply to every comment on your post,
especially in the first hour, because
more replies means more distribution.
But beyond the algorithm, these are real
people who took 30 seconds to respond to
you. Respond back. That's the full
system. One platform, the algorithm
decoded, a profile built for search and
conversions, [music]
the content stack with the four jobs,
the steal before you create, [music] the
comment flywheel as your growth engine.
Now here's the honest version [music] of
the timeline. Your first 20 posts are
practice. Post 21 through 40 are where
you actually start finding your voice.
And then post 41 and beyond are where
momentum actually [music] kicks in.
Don't quit before you get there. If you
want us to build this system for you,
that's what my agency Distinctive does
every single day. Links in the
description. And if this video was
useful, subscribe. Every week I'm
breaking down what actually works for
B2B companies on LinkedIn right now. Not
the tactics people were teaching in
2022.
See you in the next one.